Assignments/P01/README.md, before:

## P01 - BST Deletion 
### Ryan Mathews
### Description:

The project I received was to write a deletion method for a Binary Search Tree. I needed to write 3 cases that allow the BST to keep order while removing the chosen nodes. 

## 3 Cases

The base case is checking the tree for values, if your tree is empty you cannot delete anything. For the first case I checked for any nodes with no children, this was the easy case, for this case you could delete the node without having to worry about BST order. As for the second case it gets a bit more tricky. For this case you have to check if the node has any children, if it does you have to delete the correct node and replace it with its child. The third case is the most difficult, for this case you have to either pick inorder successor or inorder predecessor.  This case you have to find the predecessor and replace the subroots value with the value of the predecessor, after replacing you have to find the predecessor node and delete it from the tree and let the other cases handle reforming it.

I chose the predecessor for the reason that examples online that I saw followed the successor route, and since the complexity remains the same with either implementation I found it to not affect much.

## Challenges

I faced challenges regarding the delete method, I struggled with finding the node what exactly should I check for and how do I do this. I also struggled with order of operations, I was unsure when I should check if x has been found yet or to traverse more. Although a big struggle was understanding why I need recursion, I was struggling with what to send back and why. By far the greatest challenge was keeping the order intact after deleting a node with two children, this was a mix of all the previous struggles I had.

### Files

|   #   | File             | Description                                        |
| :---: | ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
|   1   | [Main.cpp ](https://github.com/RyanM13/5243-Advanced-Algorithms/blob/main/Assignments/P01/main.cpp)        | Main driver of my project that creates the BST.      |
|   2   | [bst_Snapshot.dot](https://github.com/RyanM13/5243-Advanced-Algorithms/blob/main/Assignments/P01/bst_snapshot.dot)  | Graphviz program that is generated by the Main.cpp       |

- Example Command:
    - `g++ main.cpp -o runit`
    - `./runit`

Commit message:

Update README with BST deletion instructions
Added instructions for modifying the deletion method in the BST.

Assignments/P01/README.md, after:

## P01 - BST Deletion 
### Ryan Mathews
### Description:

The project I received was to write a deletion method for a Binary Search Tree. I needed to write 3 cases that allow the BST to keep order while removing the chosen nodes. 

## 3 Cases

The base case is checking the tree for values, if your tree is empty you cannot delete anything. For the first case I checked for any nodes with no children, this was the easy case, for this case you could delete the node without having to worry about BST order. As for the second case it gets a bit more tricky. For this case you have to check if the node has any children, if it does you have to delete the correct node and replace it with its child. The third case is the most difficult, for this case you have to either pick inorder successor or inorder predecessor.  This case you have to find the predecessor and replace the subroots value with the value of the predecessor, after replacing you have to find the predecessor node and delete it from the tree and let the other cases handle reforming it.

I chose the predecessor for the reason that examples online that I saw followed the successor route, and since the complexity remains the same with either implementation I found it to not affect much.

## Challenges

I faced challenges regarding the delete method, I struggled with finding the node what exactly should I check for and how do I do this. I also struggled with order of operations, I was unsure when I should check if x has been found yet or to traverse more. Although a big struggle was understanding why I need recursion, I was struggling with what to send back and why. By far the greatest challenge was keeping the order intact after deleting a node with two children, this was a mix of all the previous struggles I had.

### Files

|   #   | File             | Description                                        |
| :---: | ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
|   1   | [Main.cpp ](https://github.com/RyanM13/5243-Advanced-Algorithms/blob/main/Assignments/P01/main.cpp)        | Main driver of my project that creates the BST.      |
|   2   | [bst_Snapshot.dot](https://github.com/RyanM13/5243-Advanced-Algorithms/blob/main/Assignments/P01/bst_snapshot.dot)  | Graphviz program that is generated by the Main.cpp       |

### Instructions

- To modify the deletion method, create a BST tree in main
- Insert values into the tree
- Delete different values from different nodes in the tree
- Save tree using the savedotfile method
- Use that saved file in graphviz to display your Binary Search Tree

```cpp
int main() {
    Bst tree;
    tree.insert(value)
    tree.deleteNode(value)
    tree.saveDotFile("bst_snapshot.dot");
}
```

- Example Command:
    - `g++ main.cpp -o runit`
    - `./runit`
